README.md, before:

# IXIAN Project

## About IXIAN

Ixian DLT is a revolutionary blockchain that brings several innovative advantages, such as processing a high volume of micro-transactions quickly while consuming a low amount of processing power, disk space and energy. 

**Homepage**: [IXIAN Project Homepage](https://www.ixian.io "IXIAN")

**Discord**: [Ixian Community](https://discord.gg/P493UN9)

**Bitcointalk**: [ANN Thread](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4631942.0)

## The repository

The IXIAN GitHub project is divided into seven main parts:

*[Ixian-Core](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-Core): Functionality common to all other projects.
*[Ixian-DLT](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-DLT): Implementation of the blockchain-processing part (the Master Node software).
*[Ixian-S2](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-S2): Implementation of the streaming network (the S2 Node software).
*[SPIXI](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/SPIXI): Implementation of the SPIXI messaging client for Windows, Android and iOS.
*[Ixian-Miner](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-Miner): Implementation of the Ixian standalone mining software.
*[Ixian-LiteWallet](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-LiteWallet): Simple CLI wallet for the Ixian DLT network.
*[Ixian-Pool](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-Pool): Mining pool software.

## Development branches

There are two main development branches:
* master: This branch is used to build the binaries for the official IXIAN DLT network. It should change slowly and be quite well-tested. This is also the default branch for anyone who wishes to build their Ixian software from source.
* development: This is the main development branch and the source for testnet binaries. The branch might not always be kept bug-free, if an extensive new feature is being worked on. If you are simply looking to build a current testnet binary yourself, please use one of the release tags which will be associated with the master branch.

## Running
Download the latest binary release or you can compile the code yourself.
### Windows
Double-click the corresponding .bat file in the IxianDLT directory to quickly start.

or

Open a terminal in the IxianDLT directory and type
```
IxianDLT.exe -h
```
to find out how to configure and run the IxianDLT node.

### Linux
Download and install the latest Mono release for your Linux distribution. The default Mono versions shipped with most common distributions are outdated.

Go to the [Mono official website](https://www.mono-project.com/download/stable/#download-lin) and follow the steps for your Linux distribution.
We recommend you install the **mono-complete** package.

Open a terminal and navigate to the IxianDLT folder, then type
```
mono IxianDLT.exe -h
```
to find out how to configure and run the IxianDLT node.

## Building
### Windows
Visual Studio 2017 is required (Community Edition is fine), you can get it from here: [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/)

Several NuGetPackages are downloaded automatically during the build process.

### Linux
Download and install the latest Mono release for your Linux distribution. The default Mono versions shipped with most common distributions are outdated.

Go to the [Mono official website](https://www.mono-project.com/download/stable/#download-lin) and follow the steps for your Linux distribution.

We recommend you install the **mono-complete** package.

For Debian based distributions such as Ubuntu, type
```
sudo apt install mono-complete nuget msbuild git gcc
```
or if you have a Redhat based distribution, type
```
sudo yum install mono-complete nuget msbuild git gcc
```

Next you'll need to build the Ixian solution. You can do this by typing the following commands in the terminal:
```
git clone https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-Core.git
git clone https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-DLT.git
cd Ixian-DLT
nuget restore DLTNode.sln
msbuild DLTNode.sln /p:Configuration=Release
```
The IxianDLT will be compiled and placed in the IxianDLT/bin/Release/ folder.

For the IxianDLT node to work correctly, you'll need to copy the libargon2.so shared library to the IxianDLT/bin/Release/ folder. You can use the library provided in the latest Ixian Binary release.

If you want to build the libargon2 shared library yourself, you can do this by typing the following commands in the terminal:
```
git clone https://github.com/P-H-C/phc-winner-argon2.git
cd phc-winner-argon2
make
```
Copy the resulting libargon2.so file to the IxianDLT/bin/Release/ folder, like so:
```
cp libargon2.so.1 ../IxianDLT/bin/Release/libargon2.so
```
Adjust the directory as neccessary, if you compiled the argon library in a different location. Please note that the library name generated by the argon project is libargon2.so.1, but Ixian requires libargon2.so. The file can be safely renamed, as shown in the command above.

## DLT Hybrid PoW Miner

The DLT project uses an argon2 shared library to mine Ixian DLT blocks. Our implementation comes from this project: [Argon2 Reference implementation](https://github.com/P-H-C/phc-winner-argon2)

## Get in touch / Contributing

If you feel like you can contribute to the project, or have questions or comments, you can get in touch with the team through Discord: (https://discord.gg/dbg9WtR)

## Pull requests

If you would like to send an improvement or bugfix to this repository, but without permanently joining the team, follow these approximate steps:

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a branch (preferably with a name that describes the change)
3. Create commits (the commit messages should contain some information on what and why was changed)
4. Create a pull request to this repository for review and inclusion.

Commit message:

added section on updating on Linux to README.md

README.md, after:

# IXIAN Project

## About IXIAN

Ixian DLT is a revolutionary blockchain that brings several innovative advantages, such as processing a high volume of micro-transactions quickly while consuming a low amount of processing power, disk space and energy. 

**Homepage**: [IXIAN Project Homepage](https://www.ixian.io "IXIAN")

**Discord**: [Ixian Community](https://discord.gg/P493UN9)

**Bitcointalk**: [ANN Thread](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4631942.0)

## The repository

The IXIAN GitHub project is divided into seven main parts:

*[Ixian-Core](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-Core): Functionality common to all other projects.
*[Ixian-DLT](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-DLT): Implementation of the blockchain-processing part (the Master Node software).
*[Ixian-S2](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-S2): Implementation of the streaming network (the S2 Node software).
*[SPIXI](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/SPIXI): Implementation of the SPIXI messaging client for Windows, Android and iOS.
*[Ixian-Miner](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-Miner): Implementation of the Ixian standalone mining software.
*[Ixian-LiteWallet](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-LiteWallet): Simple CLI wallet for the Ixian DLT network.
*[Ixian-Pool](https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-Pool): Mining pool software.

## Development branches

There are two main development branches:
* master: This branch is used to build the binaries for the official IXIAN DLT network. It should change slowly and be quite well-tested. This is also the default branch for anyone who wishes to build their Ixian software from source.
* development: This is the main development branch and the source for testnet binaries. The branch might not always be kept bug-free, if an extensive new feature is being worked on. If you are simply looking to build a current testnet binary yourself, please use one of the release tags which will be associated with the master branch.

## Running
Download the latest binary release or you can compile the code yourself.
### Windows
Double-click the corresponding .bat file in the IxianDLT directory to quickly start.

or

Open a terminal in the IxianDLT directory and type
```
IxianDLT.exe -h
```
to find out how to configure and run the IxianDLT node.

### Linux
Download and install the latest Mono release for your Linux distribution. The default Mono versions shipped with most common distributions are outdated.

Go to the [Mono official website](https://www.mono-project.com/download/stable/#download-lin) and follow the steps for your Linux distribution.

We recommend you install the **mono-complete** package.

For Debian based distributions such as Ubuntu, type
```
sudo apt install mono-complete nuget msbuild git gcc
```
or if you have a Redhat based distribution, type
```
sudo yum install mono-complete nuget msbuild git gcc
```

Next you'll need to build the Ixian solution. You can do this by typing the following commands in the terminal:
```
git clone https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-Core.git
git clone https://github.com/ProjectIxian/Ixian-DLT.git
cd Ixian-DLT
nuget restore DLTNode.sln
msbuild DLTNode.sln /p:Configuration=Release
```
The IxianDLT.exe will be compiled and placed in the IxianDLT/bin/Release/ folder.

For the Ixian DLT node to work correctly, you'll need to copy the libargon2.so shared library to the IxianDLT/bin/Release/ folder. You can use the library provided in the latest Ixian Binary release.

If you want to build the libargon2 shared library yourself, you can do this by typing the following commands in the terminal:
```
git clone https://github.com/P-H-C/phc-winner-argon2.git
cd phc-winner-argon2
make
```
Copy the resulting libargon2.so file to the IxianDLT/bin/Release/ folder, like so:
```
cp libargon2.so.1 ../IxianDLT/bin/Release/libargon2.so
```
Adjust the directory as neccessary, if you compiled the argon library in a different location. Please note that the library name generated by the argon project is libargon2.so.1, but Ixian requires libargon2.so. The file can be safely renamed, as shown in the command above.

### Starting on Linux
Navigate to the IxianDLT Release folder and execute IxianDLT.exe under mono:
```
cd IxianDLT/bin/Release
mono IxianDLT.exe -h
```
to find out how to configure and run the Ixia nDLT node.

**Always remember to backup your ixian.wal file that gets generated when running Ixian DLT for the first time. Ixian.wal is your wallet file and contains keys that access your IxiCash addresses. If you loose ixian.wal, you loose access to your balance.**

### Updating on Linux
**If you haven't backed up your ixian.wal file, do it now. Ixian.wal file gets generated when running Ixian DLT for the first time and contains keys that access your IxiCash addresses. If you loose this file, you loose access to your balance.**

Adjust the directory to the location of Ixian-Core and Ixian-DLT repositories, pull the latest code from github and rebuild by typing the following commands in the terminal:
```
git -C Ixian-Core pull
git -C Ixian-DLT pull
cd Ixian-DLT
nuget restore DLTNode.sln
msbuild DLTNode.sln /p:Configuration=Release
```
The updated IxianDLT.exe will be compiled and placed in the IxianDLT/bin/Release/ directory.

## DLT Hybrid PoW Miner

The DLT project uses an argon2 shared library to mine Ixian DLT blocks. Our implementation comes from this project: [Argon2 Reference implementation](https://github.com/P-H-C/phc-winner-argon2)

## Get in touch / Contributing

If you feel like you can contribute to the project, or have questions or comments, you can get in touch with the team through Discord: (https://discord.gg/dbg9WtR)

## Pull requests

If you would like to send an improvement or bugfix to this repository, but without permanently joining the team, follow these approximate steps:

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a branch (preferably with a name that describes the change)
3. Create commits (the commit messages should contain some information on what and why was changed)
4. Create a pull request to this repository for review and inclusion.
